---
layout: post
title: Welcome To The PhishTrain Blog!
---

Cyber security is a deep-cutting field based solely around the technological demise of others to further enhance and expand one's business. While this negativity is striking, it is crucial to explain this phenomenon of waiting until it is just too late. Most companies that are infiltrated do not discover the hack until about [6 months](https://www2.trustwave.com/GSR2015.html?utm_source=redirect&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=GSR2015) after the initial breach. After this, the scramble for a stronger firewall, more robust servers, and a deeper understanding to this problem sparks for a few months at best, and then dies down until the next lethal dosage of malware. What if a company could avoid this momentary buffing of its security? What if instead, the employees could recognize threats and the company would not have to churn out millions of dollars in security systems which [don't even work that well](https://powermore.dell.com/technology/is-anti-virus-software-obsolete/)?

[PhishTrain](https://phishtrain.com/) is a unique way to combine integral technologies with world-class education. Many companies use our powerful tool to directly train and analyze how their employees identify, and react to phishing emails. Mcafee reports that [97% of employees our unable to correctly identify phishing emails](http://newsroom.mcafee.com/press-release/97-people-globally-unable-correctly-identify-phishing-emails).  Unfortunately, this isn't a problem a firewall, or spam filter can fix! People are highly susceptible to tricks and are by far the weakest link in the security of any company. Many employees mindlessly click on whatever appears which could nfortunately result in the demise of a company after just one click.

After an employee clicks on a malicious link, a few outcomes are possible. Malware could be injected into their device, rendering it useless. From there, the hacker could "island-hop" traveling across the network and infecting more and more computers. Additionally, the employee may be greeted with a fake login page for a bank, or other software-as-a-service and enter data. Suddenly, all of the companies funds are compromised in just 30 seconds. If this seems scary, we can almost guarantee that you have been the target of a phishing scam before. Odds are your spam filter catches dozens, or even hundreds of phishing emails per year.  The reality is that these filters cannot, and do not work all of the time.  In fact  [500 million phishing emails make it through spam filters to email inboxes around the globe everyday](https://blog.digicert.com/dont-get-caught-phishing-scams/).  This is the problem that PhishTrain aims to solve.

The PhishTrain blog should be a must read if you are truly interested in cyber security and breaches that are seriously affecting the corporate world we live in today. Thank you for reading our welcome blog post and we look forward to the many to come! Happy Phishing!

-Team PhishTrain
